---
layout: post
title: "Nothin But .Net (Bootcamp Course) - Regina, SK"
comments: true
date: 2007-03-28 09:00
categories:
- training
---
<p class="itemBody">I have now secured a location and date/time for a course to be held in Regina, SK for the dates of April 23-27. The following is a description of the course with a registration link at the bottom of the page. <p class="itemBody">  <h3><u>Overview</u></h3> <p class="itemBody">Nothin’ But .Net is a five day boot camp that will focus on pragmatically applying .Net within the context of developing a working N-Tiered application. Registrants will learn about advanced features of .Net (2.0/3.0) as they are applied to the task of building a complete application from the UI layer all the way down to the mapping layer.  <p class="itemBody">WARNING!!!!  <p class="itemBody">If you are expecting to come to this course to learn about how to have VS.Net automatically generate an “application” for you, then this course is <b>NOT</b> for you.  <p class="itemBody">This course is all about <b>taking control</b> of the .Net framework and having it work the way you want. This course <b>will</b> place a heavy emphasis on getting back to the basics and making .Net do things the way you want it to, in a predictable and testable way.  <p class="itemBody">This course will focus on a code centric view of application development vs. the typical databinding/designer magic covered by many typical .Net courses. You will walk away with a deep understanding of fundamental aspects of .Net and how these pieces can be used to develop and deliver enterprise scale applications.  <h3 class="itemBody"><u>Core Concepts Overview</u></h3> <div class="itemBody"> <ul> <li>Expanding the capabilities of developing with VS.Net - Enter [ReSharper](http://blog.developwithpassion.com/ct.ashx?id=f9cc12ca-90c9-4a69-9c06-c132bc30bbbe&url=http%3a%2f%2fwww.developwithpassion.com%2fblog%2fct.ashx%3fid%3dd4f006e6-aefa-4d89-aa0b-b6d75d6ab487%26url%3dhttp%253a%252f%252fwww.jetbrains.com%252fresharper%252f) (a productivity add-in for Visual Studio .Net)  <li>There’s more to life than generated code  <li>Automation for the developer  <li>Generics ( they’re not just for collections )  <li>Back to basics - Rules Of Good Object Oriented Design  <li>Dependency Injection  <li>Object Relational Mapping in .Net  <li>Applying the dependency inversion principle  <li>Domain Driven Design  <li>Passive View/Supervising Controller (Model View Presenter)  <li>Creating layered architectures  <li>Driving out functionality and design through testing  <li>Taking Control Of Databinding  <li>Behavior (Test) Driven Development  <li>Core design patterns applied  <li>Pragmatic Productivity Tools For Developers</li></ul></div> <p class="itemContents">Although the list may look rather daunting, the majority of the bullet points will be covered during the evolutionary design and construction of the sample project.  <p class="itemContents">One of the main goals of the course is to show how to effectively use behavior (test) driven development, design patterns and a solid toolset to develop a portion of a non-trivial application.  <p class="itemContents">The course will allow students to pragmatically apply BDD practices as well as teach people how to utilize fundamental OO concepts and techniques that will allow for them to have cleaner, more loosely coupled architectures. It will also be an opportunity for students to see what is involved in creating applications that utilize a Rich Domain Model,and the supporting infrastructure that is required to use "Plain Old Objects".  <p class="itemContents">I have successfully delivered this course several times with great success. I anticipate that people who are interested will find that this is a very unique course offering, not typical of what is being delivered in the mainstream.  <p class="itemContents">There are only spots for 8 people to register. The course costs $2500/US for a full 5 days. The fee covers:  <div class="itemContents"> <ul> <li>5 (8 - 12 hour days, depending on the audience availability) of bootcamp style instruction  <li>Book - Patterns Of Application Architecture  <li>ReSharper 2.0 License  <li>Breakfast and Lunch</li></ul></div> 
If you have any questions please don't hesitate to contact me at [bitwisejp@gmail.com](mailto:bitwisejp@gmail.com). <h3><u><strong>Requirements</strong></u></h3> <ul> <li>You will be required to bring your own laptop ( VMWare / VPC images will be deployed to your machine on day 1 of the course)</li></ul> 
To Register for the course please use the following link: <ul> <li>[Course Registration](http://www.acteva.com/go/jboodhoo)</li></ul>




